<Html>

<Head>

<TITLE>Caucus Consortium - online collaboration for virtual teams,
 collaborative commerce, virtual communities, and web
 conferences.</TITLE>

<meta NAME="Description" CONTENT="Caucus Consortium provides of online
 collaboration environments for collaborative commerce, knowledge
 management, virtual community, virtual teams, web conferencing, and
 distance learning.">

<meta NAME="keywords" CONTENT="collaborative commerce, knowledge
 management, virtual community, virtual team, web conferencing, online
 collaboration, collaboration, c-commerce, distance learning, application
 service provider, ASP, business communications, business to business,
 business travel, channel training, chat room, computer-based learning,
 computer-based training, conference, conferencing, corporate training,
 CRM, customer relationship management, digital workplace, distance
 education, e-business, e-commerce, electronic commerce, e-meeting,
 groupware, internet conference, internet meeting, just in time training,
 net meeting, off-site meeting, online classroom, online community,
 online conference, online meeting, online seminar, online training,
 product launch, sales training,  seminar, telecommute, telecommuting,
 virtual classroom, virtual collaboration, virtual office, virtual
 workplace, web chat, web conference, web meeting, web meetings, web
 presentations, web seminar">

<Script Language="JavaScript">


isamap = new Object();

isamap[0] = "_df"

isamap[1] = "_ov"

isamap[2] = "_ot"

isamap[3] = "_dn"



function isimgact(id, act)

{

	if(document.images) document.images[id].src = eval( "isimages." + id +
	isamap[act] + ".src");

}



if (document.images) { // ensure browser can do JavaScript rollovers.

isimages = new Object();

isimages.toptitle15_df = new Image();

isimages.toptitle15_df.src = "images/toptitlequick__tours.jpg";



isimages.toptitle15_ov = new Image();

isimages.toptitle15_ov.src = "images/toptitlequick__toursov.jpg";



isimages.toptitle15_dn = new Image();

isimages.toptitle15_dn.src = "images/toptitlequick__toursdn.jpg";



isimages.toptitle19_df = new Image();

isimages.toptitle19_df.src = "images/toptitlehome.jpg";



isimages.toptitle19_ov = new Image();

isimages.toptitle19_ov.src = "images/toptitlehomeov.jpg";



isimages.toptitle24_df = new Image();

isimages.toptitle24_df.src = "images/toptitlecontact_us.jpg";



isimages.toptitle24_ov = new Image();

isimages.toptitle24_ov.src = "images/toptitlecontact_usov.jpg";



isimages.toptitle26_df = new Image();

isimages.toptitle26_df.src = "images/toptitlesite_map.jpg";



isimages.toptitle26_ov = new Image();

isimages.toptitle26_ov.src = "images/toptitlesite_mapov.jpg";



isimages.toptitle46_df = new Image();

isimages.toptitle46_df.src = "images/toptitleimage.jpg";



isimages.toptitle46_ov = new Image();

isimages.toptitle46_ov.src = "images/toptitleimageov.jpg";



isimages.toptitle47_df = new Image();

isimages.toptitle47_df.src = "images/toptitleimage1.jpg";



isimages.toptitle47_ov = new Image();

isimages.toptitle47_ov.src = "images/toptitleimage1ov.jpg";



isimages.nav_df = new Image();

isimages.nav_df.src = "images/navwhy_virtualize_.jpg";



isimages.nav_ov = new Image();

isimages.nav_ov.src = "images/navwhy_virtualize_ov.jpg";



isimages.nav1_df = new Image();

isimages.nav1_df.src = "images/navproducts___services.jpg";



isimages.nav1_ov = new Image();

isimages.nav1_ov.src = "images/navproducts___servicesov.jpg";



isimages.nav2_df = new Image();

isimages.nav2_df.src = "images/navresearch.jpg";



isimages.nav2_ov = new Image();

isimages.nav2_ov.src = "images/navresearchov.jpg";



isimages.nav3_df = new Image();

isimages.nav3_df.src = "images/navevents.jpg";



isimages.nav3_ov = new Image();

isimages.nav3_ov.src = "images/naveventsov.jpg";



isimages.nav4_df = new Image();

isimages.nav4_df.src = "images/navpress.jpg";



isimages.nav4_ov = new Image();

isimages.nav4_ov.src = "images/navpressov.jpg";



isimages.nav5_df = new Image();

isimages.nav5_df.src = "images/navour_clients.jpg";



isimages.nav5_ov = new Image();

isimages.nav5_ov.src = "images/navour_clientsov.jpg";



isimages.nav6_df = new Image();

isimages.nav6_df.src = "images/navpartners.jpg";



isimages.nav6_ov = new Image();

isimages.nav6_ov.src = "images/navpartnersov.jpg";



isimages.nav7_df = new Image();

isimages.nav7_df.src = "images/navabout_caucus.jpg";



isimages.nav7_ov = new Image();

isimages.nav7_ov.src = "images/navabout_caucusov.jpg";



}


</Script>

</Head>

<BODY BGcolor="#ffffff" bottommargin="0" topmargin="0" marginheight="0"
 marginwidth="0">

<!-- START TOP TITLE -->

<center>



<TABLE Border="0" CellSpacing="0" CellPadding="0" >

	<TR>

		<TD Width="640" Height="159"><TABLE Border="0" CellSpacing="0"
		 CellPadding="0" ><TR><TD Width="192" Height="1"><IMG alt="" border=0
		 height=1 name=toptitle src="images/toptitlepane1_1_.jpg"
		 width=192></TD><TD Width="25" Height="1"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=1
		 name=toptitle1 src="images/toptitlepane2_1_.jpg" width=25></TD><TD
		 Width="78" Height="1"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=1 name=toptitle2
		 src="images/toptitlepane3_1_.jpg" width=78></TD><TD Width="11"
		 Height="1"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=1 name=toptitle3
		 src="images/toptitlepane4_1_.jpg" width=11></TD><TD Width="67"
		 Height="1"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=1 name=toptitle4
		 src="images/toptitlepane5_1_.jpg" width=67></TD><TD Width="14"
		 Height="1"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=1 name=toptitle5
		 src="images/toptitlepane6_1_.jpg" width=14></TD><TD Width="25"
		 Height="1"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=1 name=toptitle6
		 src="images/toptitlepane7_1_.jpg" width=25></TD><TD Width="25"
		 Height="1"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=1 name=toptitle7
		 src="images/toptitlepane8_1_.jpg" width=25></TD><TD Width="108"
		 Height="1"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=1 name=toptitle8
		 src="images/toptitlepane9_1_.jpg" width=108></TD><TD Width="71"
		 Height="1"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=1 name=toptitle9
		 src="images/toptitlepane10_1_.jpg" width=71></TD><TD Width="16"
		 Height="1"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=1 name=toptitle10
		 src="images/toptitlepane11_1_.jpg" width=16></TD><TD Width="8"
		 Height="1"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=1 name=toptitle11
		 src="images/toptitlepane12_1_.jpg" width=8></TD></TR><TR><TD Width="640"
		 Height="1" ColSpan="12"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=1 name=toptitle12
		 src="images/toptitlepane1_2_.jpg" width=640></TD></TR><TR><TD
		 Width="545" Height="34" ColSpan="9"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=34
		 name=toptitle13 src="images/toptitlepane1_3_.jpg" useMap=#toptitle14
		 width=545><MAP Name="toptitle14"><AREA coords=30,6,171,34
		 href="index.html"

              shape=RECT ?></MAP></TD><TD Height="71" RowSpan="6"
              width=71><A href="quicktours.html" onmousedown="isimgact(
              'toptitle15',3)"  onmouseout="isimgact( 'toptitle15',0)" 
              onmouseover="isimgact( 'toptitle15',1)"  ><IMG
              alt="QUICK&#13;&#10;&#13;&#10;TOURS" border=0 height=71 name=toptitle15
              src="images/toptitlequick__tours.jpg" width=71 ></A></TD><TD Width="24"
              Height="34" ColSpan="2"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=34 name=toptitle16
              src="images/toptitlepane11_3_.jpg" width=24></TD></TR><TR><TD
              Width="387" Height="1" ColSpan="6"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=1
              name=toptitle17 src="images/toptitlepane1_4_.jpg" useMap=#toptitle18
              width=387><MAP Name="toptitle18"><AREA coords=30,0,171,1
              href="index.html"

              shape=RECT ?></MAP></TD><TD Height="25" RowSpan="2"
              ColSpan="2" width=50 ><A href="index.html" onmouseout="isimgact(
              'toptitle19',0)"  onmouseover="isimgact( 'toptitle19',1)"  ><IMG
              alt=home border=0 height=25 name=toptitle19
              src="images/toptitlehome.jpg" width=50></A></TD><TD Width="108"
              Height="1"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=1 name=toptitle20
              src="images/toptitlepane9_4_.jpg" width=108></TD><TD Width="24"
              Height="1" ColSpan="2"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=1 name=toptitle21
              src="images/toptitlepane11_4_.jpg" width=24></TD></TR><TR><TD
              Width="217" Height="24" ColSpan="2"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=24
              name=toptitle22 src="images/toptitlepane1_5_.jpg" useMap=#toptitle23
              width=217><MAP Name="toptitle23"><AREA coords=30,0,171,24
              href="index.html"

              shape=RECT ?></MAP></TD><TD Height="25" RowSpan="2"
              width=78><A href="mailto:consortium@caucuscare.com" onmouseout="isimgact( 'toptitle24',0)"
              onmouseover="isimgact( 'toptitle24',1)"  ><IMG alt="contact us" border=0
              height=25 name=toptitle24 src="images/toptitlecontact_us.jpg" width=78
              ></A></TD><TD Width="11" Height="24"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=24
              name=toptitle25 src="images/toptitlepane4_5_.jpg" width=11></TD><TD
              Width="67" Height="27" RowSpan="3"><A href="sitemap.html"
              onmouseout="isimgact( 'toptitle26',0)"  onmouseover="isimgact(
              'toptitle26',1)"  ><IMG alt="site map" border=0 height=27
              name=toptitle26 src="images/toptitlesite_map.jpg" width=67 ></A></TD><TD
              Width="14" Height="24"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=24 name=toptitle27
              src="images/toptitlepane6_5_.jpg" width=14></TD><TD Width="108"
              Height="24"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=24 name=toptitle28
              src="images/toptitlepane9_5_.jpg" width=108></TD><TD Width="24"
              Height="24" ColSpan="2"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=24 name=toptitle29
              src="images/toptitlepane11_5_.jpg" width=24></TD></TR><TR><TD
              Width="217" Height="1" ColSpan="2"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=1
              name=toptitle30 src="images/toptitlepane1_6_.jpg" useMap=#toptitle31
              width=217><MAP Name="toptitle31"><AREA coords=30,0,171,1
              href="index.html"

              shape=RECT ?></MAP></TD><TD Height="1" width=11 ><IMG
              alt="" border=0 height=1 name=toptitle32
              src="images/toptitlepane4_6_.jpg" width=11></TD><TD Width="172"
              Height="1" ColSpan="4"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=1 name=toptitle33
              src="images/toptitlepane6_6_.jpg" width=172></TD><TD Width="24"
              Height="1" ColSpan="2"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=1 name=toptitle34
              src="images/toptitlepane11_6_.jpg" width=24></TD></TR><TR><TD
              Width="306" Height="2" ColSpan="4"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=2
              name=toptitle35 src="images/toptitlepane1_7_.jpg" useMap=#toptitle36
              width=306><MAP Name="toptitle36"><AREA coords=30,0,171,2
              href="index.html"

              shape=RECT ?></MAP></TD><TD Height="2" ColSpan="4"
              width=172><IMG alt="" border=0 height=2 name=toptitle37
              src="images/toptitlepane6_7_.jpg" width=172></TD><TD Width="24"
              Height="2" ColSpan="2"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=2 name=toptitle38
              src="images/toptitlepane11_7_.jpg" width=24></TD></TR><TR><TD
              Width="545" Height="9" ColSpan="9"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=9
              name=toptitle39 src="images/toptitlepane1_8_.jpg" useMap=#toptitle40
              width=545><MAP Name="toptitle40"><AREA coords=30,0,171,9
              href="index.html"

              shape=RECT ?></MAP></TD><TD Height="9" ColSpan="2"
              width=24><IMG alt="" border=0 height=9 name=toptitle41
              src="images/toptitlepane11_8_.jpg" width=24></TD></TR><TR><TD
              Width="640" Height="10" ColSpan="12"><IMG alt="" border=0 height=10
              name=toptitle42 src="images/toptitlepane1_9_.jpg" useMap=#toptitle43
              width=640><MAP Name="toptitle43"><AREA coords=30,0,171,10
              href="index.html"

              shape=RECT ?></MAP></TD></TR>

        <TR><TD Height="76" width=192 ><IMG alt="" border=0 height=76
         name=toptitle44 src="images/toptitlepane1_10_.jpg" useMap=#toptitle45
         width=192><MAP Name="toptitle45"><AREA coords=30,0,171,69
         href="index.html"

              shape=RECT ?></MAP></TD><TD Height="76" ColSpan="10"
              width=440><font size="4" face="Arial"
              color="#533067"><b>Research</b></font><br><IMG alt="" border=0 height=1
              src="images/gray-box.gif" width=430><br><font size="3"
              face="arial">Whitepapers</font></TD><TD Width="8" Height="76"><IMG
              alt="" border=0 height=76 name=toptitle48
              src="images/toptitlepane12_10_.jpg" width=8></TD></TR></TABLE></TD>

	</TR>

	<TR>

		<TD><IMG alt="" height=1 src="images/is_single_pixel_gif.gif"
		 width=640></TD>

	</TR>

</TABLE>

<!-- STOP TOP TITLE -->



<!-- START NAVIGATION BUTTONS -->

<table width="610" cellspacing="5"><tr valign="top">

      <td width="170" align="middle"><font size="1" color="black"
       face="arial">
        <A href="prod-services.html" onmouseout="isimgact( 'nav1',0)" 
         onmouseover="isimgact( 'nav1',1)"  ><IMG alt="Products &amp; Services"
         border=0 height=27 name=nav1 src ="images/navproducts___services.jpg"
         width=159 ></A><br>



<A href="research.html" onmouseout="isimgact( 'nav2',0)" 
 onmouseover="isimgact( 'nav2',1)"  ><IMG alt=Research border=0 height=27
 name=nav2 src="images/navresearch.jpg" width=159></A><br>

<table width="130" cellpadding="0" border="0"><tr valign="top"><td><font
 size="1" color="black" face="arial">

<A href="whitepapers.html">Whitepapers</A><br><IMG border=0 height=1
 src="images/gray-box.gif" width=140><br>

<A href="published.html">

Published Works</A><br></font></td></tr></table>

<!--
<A href="press.html" onmouseout="isimgact( 'nav4',0)" 
 onmouseover="isimgact( 'nav4',1)"  ><IMG alt=Press border=0 height=27
 name=nav4 src="images/navpress.jpg" width=159></A><br>
-->



<A href="ourclients.html" onmouseout="isimgact( 'nav5',0)" 
 onmouseover="isimgact( 'nav5',1)"  ><IMG alt="Our Clients" border=0
 height=27 name=nav5 src="images/navour_clients.jpg" width=159 ></A><br>



<A href="partners.html" onmouseout="isimgact( 'nav6',0)" 
 onmouseover="isimgact( 'nav6',1)"  ><IMG alt=Partners border=0 height=27
 name=nav6 src="images/navpartners.jpg" width=159></A><br>



<A href="aboutcaucus.html" onmouseout="isimgact( 'nav7',0)" 
 onmouseover="isimgact( 'nav7',1)"  ><IMG alt="About Caucus" border=0
 height=27 name=nav7 src="images/navabout_caucus.jpg" width=159 ></A><br>
 
<IMG alt="" border=0 height=300 src="images/is_single_pixel_gif.gif"
 width=1>



<!-- STOP NAVIGATION BUTTONS -->

<br></font>



</td>

<!-- START FIRST COLUMN -->

<td width="480"><font face="Arial" size="2" color="black">



<font face="Arial" size=3><b>

Team Effectiveness Strategies

</b></font><br>

<B>

by Lisa Kimball, <a href="http://www.groupjazz.com">Group Jazz</a>

</B><p>



Leading a virtual team requires more than working on the team's project
agenda. Teams which are unable to meet in person frequently because
members are distributed geographically need additional help to support
their team process so that they can act and feel like a team.

<p>

Here are several strategies team leaders can use which make a
significant difference in team effectiveness.

<ul>

<li>	Make whole visible to everyone

<li>	Provide "line of sight"

<li>	Catalyze rich conversations

<li>	Amplify energy

<li>	Create tracks and footprints in physical space</ul>

<p>

Get the whole team involved in the process of being conscious of making
these things happen. That not only distributes the work but makes it
more likely that opportunities to support these strategies won't be
missed.

<p>

One way of involving the team is to share the list and talk about which
one or two strategies would be worthwhile to work on for the next period
of time (the next quarter, between now and the next face-to-face team
meeting). Develop a shared understanding and an image of what it would
feel like if the team was successful in implementing the strategy.
Brainstorm a list of ways to achieve goals related to the selected
strategy. Be as concrete and specific as possible in identifying actions
for team members and team leaders.

<p>

<b>

- Who will do what and when and how will they do it? <br>

- How will we know if it's working? <br>

- What will we do if it's not working? </b>

<p><img src="images/gray-box.gif" width="430" height="1" alt=""
 border="0"><p>

<b>Make Whole Visible to Everyone </b>

  <p>



<b>The idea of wholeness</b><br>

One of the most difficult challenges for a distributed team is
maintaining an image of itself as a whole. This is critical so that the
team becomes more than just a loose collection of related parts. Working
as a whole is what makes a team powerful.

<p>

When a team is co-located they develop a shared image of themselves
through experience - sitting in a conference room, meeting in someone's
office, having lunch together.

<p>

A distributed team will lack these images so you need other strategies
for creating a sense of the whole so the team doesn't feel fragmented.

<p>

The goal is to have the whole team present in all the individual members
of the team.



<p>



<b>Find images to illustrate the idea which the team can share </b>

<ul>

<li>	The children's game where you connect numbered dots in a certain
 order to "see" a whole picture  <li>	Pointillist paintings where the
 whole picture is made up of many little dots

<li>	A hologram where each part contains the whole image

</ul>





<b>Brainstorm "wholeness" strategies with your team</b>	<ul>

<li>	Make sure there is a team photograph and that everyone has a copy
 (If you aren't able to take a team photo when you are together in
 person, make a collage out of pictures of all the individuals). Put it
 on something people are likely to keep in view (a mouse pad, a telephone
 contact list, a calendar).

<li>	Distribute a map showing where each team member is located.

<li>	Create a graphic which shows the name of each team member "sitting"
 at a place around a table (this generates a feeling of the whole better
 than seeing the names of team members in a list).

</ul>



<img src="images/gray-box.gif" width="430" height="1" alt=""
 border="0"><p>

<b>Provide "Line of Sight" </b>

  <p>

<b>The idea of lines of sight.</b> <br>

One of the most difficult things for distributed teams is for members to
"see" and feel what's happening above and around them in the
organization. They don't have a "line of sight" to key parts of the
system and so feel disconnected which reduces their effectiveness.

<p>

When teams are co-located, members often sit in on briefings, company
announcements, and meetings of related teams. In distributed teams, it's
not unusual for the team manager to be the only one in regular contact
with the team sponsor or other key players in the system and, therefore,
the only one with a good view.

<p>

This problem is exacerbated when there is a critical mass of members in
one location and smaller groups elsewhere who will always feel that they
are missing out on the action.

<p>

CC'ing people on meeting minutes isn't adequate, they need the stories,
the feel, the picture, the emotional tone which is the essence of what
they are missing





<p>

<b>Find images to illustrate the idea which the team can share</b> <ul>

<li>	A periscope which allows people in a submarine to see above the
 surface of the water

<li>	A fire observation tower

<li>	Opera glasses which let people in the balcony see facial
 expressions of people on stage

</ul>





<b>Brainstorm strategies to get lines of sight in all directions with
 your team</b><ul>

<li>	Create "journalism" style (in contrast to "minutes") reports on
 meetings and publish to the rest of the team (including photos where
 possible)

<li>	Encourage people to acknowledge who is missing in the room at the
 beginning of meetings and develop conscious strategies to connect
 distributed members to the process.

<li>	Create space in the electronic communication system for informal
 swapping of stories and feelings about what's happening (the water
 cooler)</ul>



<p><img src="images/gray-box.gif" width="430" height="1" alt=""
 border="0"><p>



<b>Catalyze Rich Conversations </b>

  <p>

<b>The idea of a variety of rich conversations  Include conversations
 that are:</b>  <br>

Long-term  - Short-term  - Present  - Future  - About projects  - About
fun  - Social  - Creative

<p>

In order to realize the benefits of working as an aligned,
interdependent, system teams need to have conversations which are
diverse, complex, and deal with everything from key routines to major
strategies. Collaboration can be thought of as a network of different
conversations.

<p>

A common problem for distributed teams is that their conversations
deteriorate to being about logistical details, routine reports, and
administrative matters except during infrequent face-to-face meetings.
This just doesn't provide the "juice" you need to support the essential
creative energy of teamwork because, in many cases, these conversations
are the only shared experience the team has for long periods of time.

<p>

It's critical to consciously create time and space for the team to have
multiple, rich conversations between meetings - which means that you
need to find ways to use a range of communications technologies to
support these conversations.



<p>



<b>Find images to illustrate the idea which the team can share</b> 	<ul>
 
<li>	The great philosophical "over dinner" conversations teams have
 during off-site meetings

<li>	The juicy dialogue catalyzed by reading an evocative article

<li>	The informal exchange in the hall on the way to lunch where
 critical information is passed along



</ul>



<b>Brainstorm strategies to enrich conversations with your team	</b><ul>
 
<li>	Hold periodic team telephone conferences described as "after
 dinner" talks (no admin matters allowed)

<li>	Rotate responsibility among the team to facilitate discussion on
 non-routine topics (theories of marketing, regional culture) in an
 online environment on the Intranet.

<li>	Invite "experts" (authors, consultants, key people from other parts
 of the organization) to engage with the team.



</ul><img src="images/gray-box.gif" width="430" height="1" alt=""
 border="0"><p>



<b>Amplify Energy </b>

  <p>

<b>The idea of amplifying energy</b><br>



 	The best team experiences are those where you can really feel the
 	energy of the team. It feels synergistic. It's exciting.

<p>

   When a team meets in physical space, the room itself serves as a
   "container" which amplifies the energy of the team. At a great creative
   meeting it can feel like energy is bouncing off the walls and being
   absorbed by members of the team.

<p>

Distributed teams experience a kind of entropy effect where energy
dissipates and drains out of the system because there is no container
for it.

<p>

It's critical to find ways to identify energy in the distributed team
and make it available to the whole so they can feel it and build on it.
Blow on the distributed embers of energy to help the whole team catch
fire.

<p>

<b>Find images to illustrate the idea which the team can share </b>	<ul>
 
<li>	a fantastic brainstorming session where the ideas are flowing and
 time just seems to fly by

<li>	the energy created when a team member comes running into the room
 to share the excitement of a new development or accomplishment

<li>	a team pitching in together on a tight deadline has the energy to
 work overtime until it's time to celebrate the accomplishment



</ul>

<b>Brainstorm strategies to amplify energy with your team	</b><ul>

<li>	Find ways to "spotlight" individuals or parts of the team where
 something interesting is happening (initiate audio and video conferences
 from different places to feature different parts of the team)

<li>	Develop a team norm of sending "hot news" bulletins to the team
 (and a norm to respond to provide reinforcement and support)

<li>	Create ways to celebrate accomplishments as a whole team even when
 you aren't together.



</ul><img src="images/gray-box.gif" width="430" height="1" alt=""
 border="0"><p>

<b>Create Tracks and Footprints in Physical Space</b>

  <p>

<b>The idea of tracks and footprints</b> 	<br>

Virtual teams can feel very vague and abstract which makes it hard for
both team members and others in the organization to experience the team
as "real" and important.

<p>

   In a co-located team, the physical space and artifacts in it serve as
   reminders that the team exists - the names of everyone on in-boxes, the
   space around a shared secretary where you're likely to run into other
   team members, the corridor where everyone has an office.

<p>

Without these, a distributed team can disappear off the radar screens of
others in the organization and team members can lose a sense of
themselves as part of the team. Lacking reminders, virtual team members
can forget to tune into various team communication channels unless there
is something pressing.

<p>

Artifacts give a virtual team visibility in team members' physical
space. They serve as an anchor to bring the team down to earth. Catching
a glimpse of the team picture out of the corner of your eye is a
subliminal reminder of the team, makes it present for you.

<p>



<b>Find images to illustrate the idea which the team can share</b> 	<ul>
 
<li>The corridor where everyone on the team has their office (what does
 a virtual corridor look like?)

<li>The break room with shared coffee pot, coffee mugs from a conference
 everyone went to, postcards from team members on vacation.

<li>A team bulletin board that shows what everyone is doing.

</ul>



<b>Brainstorm ways of creating tracks and footprints with your team </b>
 <ul>

<li>Even where there is only a single team member, create a sign or team
 in-box or some other signifier of the team so it's visible to everyone
 in that environment

<li>Especially at the beginning, circulate team "output" with some kind
 of team-specific headings and formatting. This puts it in a team context
 and conveys the sense of ideas coming from the whole team rather than a
 single member.

</ul>

















</font></td>

</tr></table>

<!-- START BOTTOM BANNER -->


<p>
&nbsp;<br>

<IMG align=absBottom alt="" border=0 height=34 src="images/bttm-bar.jpg"
 width=640 ></A><table width="600" cellpadding="0"><tr>
      <td align="center"><font face="Arial" size="1" color="gray">
       Caucus and
        the Caucus logo are trademarks of CaucusCare.<br> 
All other names
        and logos
        are registered trademarks of their respective owners.
        </font> </td>
    </tr></table></center></BODY>

</Html>

